---
layout: default
title: Framework from v3.4.2 to v3.5.0
parent: Migrate an existing project
nav_order: 1
---
# Framework from v3.4.2 to v3.5.0

## WARNING POTENTIAL BUG 
Due to a bug in TGenericRepositoryEF correct with package V3.5.1 you should remove the following line in your IocContainer.cs file 
```CSharp
  collection.AddScoped(typeof(ITGenericRepository<,>), typeof(TGenericRepositoryEF<,>));
```
To force the usage of the last version package (ie V3.5.1 or higher) run in the Package Manager Console : 
```cmd
dotnet restore --no-cache
```

You should use BIA.Net.Core.Domain + BIA.Net.Core.Infrastructure.Data + BIA.Net.Core.Ioc V3.5.1 or higher.


## AUTOMATIC MIGRATION
1. Use the BIAToolKit to migrate the project

2. Analyse the .rej file (search "diff a/" in VS code) that have been created in your project folder
=> Those files are changes that cannot be apply automaticaly.
=> Apply manualy the change.

## FRONT
1. Replace in the solution 
		```.culture$.```
	by 
		```.currentCultureDateFormat$.```

2. Replacement for Angular 12:
   This migration contains a major upgrade for Angular project. The angular version upgrade from v9 to v12. included PrimeNg from v9 to v12.

* Concerning Angular see [update guide](https://update.angular.io/?l=3&v=9.1-12.0) for more details.
* Concerning PrimeNg see the [PrimeOne Migration](https://github.com/primefaces/primeng/wiki/PrimeOne-Migration) for more details.

### Breaking changes
* With PrimeNg, the main difference is, v10 uses p-* prefix for classes whereas older versions use ui-* 
* Icon naming change:` ui-icon-xxx` is replaced by` pi pi-xxx` (_where xxx is the icon name_)
* The icon `filter-list` is replaced by the icon `filter`.
* The icon `chevron-down` is replaced by the icon `angle-down`.
* Float label : All input text components support floating labels by adding (.p-float-label) to wrapper class.
before
```html
      <span class="md-inputfield">
        <input formControlName="name" type="text" pInputText maxlength="64" />
        <label><span class="bia-star-mandatory">*</span>{{ 'airport.name' | translate }}</label>
      </span>
```
after
```html
      <span class="p-float-label">
        <input formControlName="name" type="text" pInputText maxlength="64" />
        <label><span class="bia-star-mandatory">*</span>{{ 'airport.name' | translate }}</label>
      </span>
```
* PrimeNg traduction
Now the traduction use the same json file. So there is a "primeng" element into the I18N json files. 

### Developer actions

Edit change source path and run the script [V3.4.2_to_V3.5.0_Replacement.ps1](./scripts/V3.4.2_to_V3.5.0_Replacement.ps1) it will do the replacement :

Keep the same order listed bellow.
* Replace in html and scss files all `ui-icon`- by `pi pi-`
* Replace in html and scss files all `chevron-down` by `angle-down`.
* Replace in html and scss files all `filter-list` by `filter`.
* Replace in html and scss files all `md-inputfield` by `p-float-label`.
* Replace in html and scss files all `ui-button-secondary` by `p-button-outlined`.
* Replace in html and scss files all `ui-` prefix by `p-`. Only in files *.ts, *.html, *.scss.


## BACK
### Manual
1. search "ListComponent !== undefined" and correct OnDisplay function in CRUD : 
   Remove the useless dispatch(loadAllByPost 
   ```
		OnDisplay() {
	// if (this.memberListComponent !== undefined) {
	//   this.store.dispatch(loadAllByPost({ event: this.memberListComponent.getLazyLoadMetadata() }));
	  }
	```
2. replace culture$ by currentCultureDateFormat$ in the biaTranslationService ex:
this.biaTranslationService.culture$
by 
this.biaTranslationService.currentCultureDateFormat$

1. replace import LazyLoadEvent from 'primeng' by 'primeng/api' ex:
import { LazyLoadEvent } from 'primeng';
by 
import { LazyLoadEvent } from 'primeng/api';

### Automatic
Change done by the script **V3.4.2_to_V3.5.0_Replacement.ps1**:

1. Search "Mapper()" in the solution and replace the new Mapper() init by call of InitMapper() (ex for Notification)
		```var mapper = new NotificationMapper();```
	by 
		```NotificationMapper mapper = this.InitMapper<NotificationDto, NotificationMapper>();```
		
2. replace "FileFiltersDto" by "PagingFilterFormatDto" and resolve using if requiered
   
3. replace "VersionedTable, IEntity" by "VersionedTable, IEntity\<int>" 
   - And after "VersionedTable, IEntity\<int>\<int>" to "VersionedTable, IEntity\<int>"

4. replace ": BaseDto" by ": BaseDto\<int>"
   - And after ": BaseDto\<int>\<int>" to ": BaseDto\<int>"

5. search all ": FilteredServiceBase<" and add "int" as second template parameter 
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace ": FilteredServiceBase<(.*)>" by ": FilteredServiceBase<$1, int>"
   
6. search all "ITGenericRepository<" and add "int" as second template parameter 
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace "ITGenericRepository<(.*)>" by "ITGenericRepository<$1, int>"

7. search all ": AppServiceBase<" and add "int" as second template parameter 
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace ": AppServiceBase<(.*)>" by ": AppServiceBase<$1, int>"
  
8.  search all ": CrudAppServiceBase<" and add "int" as third template parameter 
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace ": CrudAppServiceBase<(.\*),(.\*),(.\*),(.\*)>" by ": CrudAppServiceBase<$1,$2, int,$3,$4>"
    
9. search all ": ICrudAppServiceBase<" and add "int" as third template parameter 
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace ": ICrudAppServiceBase<(.\*),(.\*),(.\*)>" by ": ICrudAppServiceBase<$1,$2, int,$3>"
    
10. search all ": BaseMapper<" and add "int" as third template parameter
  * You can use replacement by using expression replace ": BaseMapper<(.\*),(.\*)>" by ": BaseMapper<$1,$2, int>"
   
11. Not used "IGenericRepository" any more. Use ITGenericRepository
    
12. Not used "DataRepository" any more. Use TGenericRepositoryEF

13. Not used "GenericRepositoryEF" any more. Use TGenericRepositoryEF

## BUILD 

## DEPLOY
